## App Value
The direct value of this app would be assessed by the time savings gained by the implementing institution but would also have indirect value by increasing data availability and consistency, institutionalizing policies across all units, improving user experience, defining and enforcing role responsibilities, disbursing improvements across all units at a fraction of the individual unit investment, and providing intuitive use such that cross-functional staff training can be implemented to reduce single source of authority (aka increasing availability of approvers even if on vacation, travel, re-assignment, or unfilled position).  

Lets assume that an institution has 200 buildings, approvimately 200 building managers, 10,000 staff and faculty, and 1,000 part-time space users (5% of 20,000 students).  In total, the 200 building managers would need to manage requests and track data of 11,000 people with approximately 20% leaving and the equivalent new people replenshing those vacancies.  This would indicate that 4,400 changes occur annually.  At first look, this would indicate that each building manager would need to to make 22 updates but in reality of the 200 building managers, only about 40 would manage large spaces with large number of users.  This would indicate each manager makes more than 110 requests.  If the request takes 10 minutes to process the data, 5 minutes to communicate instructions and updates to the requester, and 5 minute to retrieve and hand-off keys then in total, the manager spends 2,200 minutes managing keys.  It is assumed that these numbers include time spent updating documentation, auditing records, and generating reports.  

At $45 an hour, this arrives at narly a week of their time is spent on this process and nearly $1,700 invested per building manager.  Given 40 building managers then this comes out to be nearly $66,000 investment annually for just the building manager's involvment.  There are still costs associated with key fabrication and key disbursement that are not included but often require significant communication and hand-off of materials with both building managers and users.  In effect, space access could easily cost more than $100,000 annually from just a labor perspective.  

By reducing the time spent performing documentation and reporting, staff costs for this process could be cut by 50% and the time savings could be leveraged toward revenue generating processes.  If revenue generating processes have a margin of 2% and labor costs account for 30% of the service or product cost then this would generate a possible $160,000 in additional revenue and $3,300 in net income.  The true value would be cost savings ($50,000), generated profit ($3,300), and any reduced need for additional labor that would have otherwise been needed to accomplish this new goal.  The cost savings by themselves could fund approximately 33% of the new revenue cost so the investment of $160,000 is really more like an investment of $106,700 in new capital.   